Lab 1: Introduction
CS344
Ridge DeJong
2/8/20

Is the GPS problem solver implemented as a class or as a function?
The GPS is a function, with other functions also defined to help it out.

The solver requires initial states, goal states and operators. Of what type are these objects?
These objects are Lists, composed of individual states and moves.

Is the mechanism recursive? If so, how does it implement its recursion?
Yes, "achieve_all" calls "achieve" which calls "apply_operator" which calls "achieve_all" again.
It uses a goal stack to recursively try to get to the goal state from a specific state (meet preconditions).

What famous puzzle does this code model and what are the rules of that puzzle? Does the code faithfully implement the puzzle?
This is modelled after the "Monkey and Bananas Problem".
The rules are that there is a monkey in a room, there are bananas hanging from the ceiling but are too high to reach,
and there is a chair and a stick in the corner, which if used correctly would enable the monkey to reach the bananas.
This code does a pretty good job of implementing the problem because the monkey must move the chair,
but one difference here is that the monkey must drop the ball to grab the bananas instead of using a stick to knock them down.

How does the GPS mechanism solve the problem? Be prepared to specify this in detail. You can use the logging feature to print a trace of the mechanism’s deliberations.
It looks at the goal state (not hungry) and searches for what it must do in order to achieve that state (eat bananas).
It continues to recursively work backwards (has bananas, grasp bananas, at bananas...) until it arrives at the given initial state.
Then, it comes out of the recursion by choosing the order of actions it must perform before arriving at the goal state.
Still, on the way out of the recursion, not all of the preconditions will be immediately met, so it might have to do more
recursion to reach every state on the way to the goal state

Is this code artificially intelligent? If so, which definition (or definitions) of AI from the text does it satisfy?
This code is artificially intelligent under the definition of Acting Humanly.
Kurtweil defines AI as "The art of creating machines that perform functions that require intelligence
when performed by people", and Rich and Knight define it as "The study of how to make computers do
things at which, at the moment, people are better."
These definitions apply here because a human could easily know to move a chair and drop a ball to reach the bananas,
and the code is just trying to make the same decisions that a human would make.

Would a monkey who/that solves the problem in the real world be displaying intelligence?
I would say the monkey is displaying a degree of intelligence because it uses logic and reasoning to combine the skills it knows
and understand the order it needs to perform the tasks. It then connects its logic and body by physically performing the necessary
skills in the correct order, resulting in the goal state.