Lab 3: Constraint Satisfaction
CS344
Ridge DeJong
2/22/20

Exercise 3.1
Which algorithms work (in a timely manner) and which don’t? Explain your results in terms of the capabilities
(and implementations) of the algorithms and nature of the problems.
--The depth first graph search only works in a timely manner on the already solved sudoku. This is because the algorithm
simply searches blindly by finding all possible combinations then trying every combination one by one, which naturally
takes a long time for a sudoku because of all the possible inputs.
--AC3 search quickly solves the already solved and easy sudoku, but does not solve the harder ones. This is because of
AC3's capabilities. AC3 can find a solution but it can also not find a solution. This is because its purpose is really
to prune the data and shrink the size of each domain by testing each value in a domain against the constraints and
removing it if it's not possible.
--Backtracking search can solve the solved sudoku, and it can solve the easy one is less than 30 seconds, but the
harder ones take too much time. The reason for this comes from its design. It's similar to a depth first graph search
except it deletes any options that cannot lead to a solution. This makes it faster than the DFS (as seen in its
sudoku abilities) but still requires a lot of time for bigger problems because it still has to try the many different
possible combinations of the harder sudokus.
--Min-conflicts search solves the solved sudoku but cannot solve the easy one. The idea behind the algorithm is that
it randomly fills the blanks with values, then randomly chooses a variable that violates a constraint and assigns it
the value that minimizes the number of conflicts. However, if there is a tie for number of conflicts it randomly
chooses one of the options. This process can take many steps since a move that initially seems good can end up having
more conflicts when other variables are changed. Therefore the algorithm terminates when it hits its max number of
steps allowed.

What effect does configuring the settings for backtracking have on the results? Try the following:
Set the variable/value ordering (i.e., the select_unassigned_variable parameter) to first-unassigned-variable
(the default) or minimum-remaining-values (i.e., mrv).
Set the inference (i.e., the inference parameter) to forward-checking (i.e., forward_checking).
Which, if any, of these settings should work best for sudoku? What combination of settings actually works the best?
--Making both of these changes should work the best for sudoku because they both help the backtracking search by
reducing the number of tangents it goes on for wrong solutions. However, when having the algorithm select the
minimum-remaining value next instead of the first unassigned variable next, the search took multiple minutes to solve
the easy sudoku instead of the original 30 seconds. Conversely, having the algorithm forward check before searching
allows the algorithm to solve the easy sudoku immediately but struggled a bit with the harder one. Finally, when these
modifications were combined the result was a fantastic beast of an algorithm that could immediately solve the so-called
hardest algorithm.

Exercise 3.2
How large can n get for each of the algorithms? Why?
-- Min-conflicts can solve 5000 Queens in about 20 seconds. It does this well because of the nature of the problem.
The algorithm moves incorrect queens to a new position with the least amount of conflicts, and for this problem it's
not unlikely that the algorithm drops a queen in a good position because if there is a queen in every general area of
the board, there aren't too many bad spaces around it.
-- AC3 fails for any number of queens. This is because the nature of AC3 isn't to necessarily solve the problem,
but to narrow down the domains, or reduce the number of possible places that each queen can go.
-- For backtracking (unmodified) the longest I was willing to wait was for 28 queens which took about 45 seconds. This
algorithm is limited because it does a bunch of depth first searches which requires a lot of time due to the sheer number
of combinations in this problem.

What backtracking settings work the best? Why?
-- Selecting the next variable to be the one with the minimum-remaining values did a bit better than the original,
but wasn't consistent. It could solve for 100 queens in 10 seconds one time, but much longer the next time. Making
the forward checking modification also helped a little bit by solving 28 queens in about 20 seconds compared to 45
seconds. Combining these modifications led to the best result, yet still inconsistent. It could sometimes solve 200
queens immediately, but other times I stopped it after a minute. The combination has the most potential to solve the
most queens because the mrv allows the algorithm to detect and avoid a branch that will lead to failure, and the
forward checking allows the algorithm to remove values from unassigned variable domains connected to a variable. Both
of these avoid wasting time so that the algorithm can reach the solution faster.

How many steps does Min-Conflicts require to do its work? Why?
-- With a limit of 80 steps, min-conflicts can solve 8 queens about 50% of the time. This makes sense if we think about
how min-conflicts works. Since it chooses a random conflicting variable to move (which is likely all of them to start),
and doesn't find the perfect move for the solution but just the move with the least conflicts, this means it will cycle
through choosing variables and slightly improving them until there are no conflicts. 80 moves gives an average of 10
moves per queen, and with the cycling between variables and slightly improving each one every time, this number
makes sense.

Compare and contrast the specifications for CSP (i.e., csp.CSP) and traditional problems (i.e., search.Problem).
Be sure to consider the nature of states, domains, actions, results and goal tests.
-- The states for both types of problems are similar - where some or all of the variables are assigned values.
 In this case each state is simply a board with some configuration of pieces on it.
-- The domains for both types are similar in the sense that both of them have variables that have possible moves.
However, the difference in that in a csp the domains can be specified for each variable, while a traditional cannot.
-- Both types have a list of possible actions, however a csp only provides actions that are applicable and nonconflicting,
while a traditional problem gives all possible actions with no regard for usefulness.
-- Results are the same for both types - they both give the new state following an action.
-- While both types of problems have a goal test that looks for a completed goal state to be satisfied, the traditional
problem blindly chugs along until it finally finds this state, whereas a csp has a set of constraints so it can
evaluate each state and determine how close it is to its goal and what it needs to satisfy to get there.

Compare and contrast the nature of the heuristics deployed in traditional and constraint-based problem solving.
-- In both cases heuristics help the algorithm reach the solution faster, and they do this by giving the algorithm
part of a brain so it has a better idea of where to search. However, I think the heuristics for a csp are more effective.
In a traditional search, a heuristic like A* or greedy is able to tell a given state how well it's sitting and how well
it will be sitting if it takes one of the possible moves. Yet, it can't guarantee it won't lead you down a dead end.
On the other hand, a csp heuristic like mrv or forward checking doesn't specifically give you a numerical value of
how well you're sitting, but they have the ability to cut off entire branches that they know don't lead to the solution
so you won't end up in a dead end.