No Partners

Exercise 1
We want the ML model to determine whether an email in Gmail is important or not.

Exercise 2
Our ideal outcome is to save the user the time of skimming through emails to find important ones, as well as
make the important emails easier to access to reduce the probability of missing an important email.

Exercise 3
Our success metrics are that the model has a 90% accuracy of determining which emails are important to the user.
Additionally, this model must not determine an email important that is not important to the user. What the user
considers important is measured by how often that email is clicked first.
The key results for the success metrics are which emails the model determines to be important for the user.
Our ML model is deemed a failure if the user clicks a regular email before an important email more than 75% of
the time the user opens their email.

Exercise 4
The output from our ML model will be a probability.
The output is defined as the probability that an email in a user's inbox is clicked first.

Exercise 5
The output from the ML model will be made every time a new email enters the user's inbox.
The outcome will be used for determining which emails to mark as important.

Exercise 6
If we didn't use ML, we would manually compute the probability that an email is important based on who the email
was sent from (person or business) and how many people the email was sent to.

Exercise 7a
Our problem is best framed as Binary Classification which predicts whether an email is important or not.

Exercise 7b
Problem is already Binary Classification.

Exercise 8
Input1:Sender | Input2:Number of Recipients | Prediction
John Smith | 1 | Important
Google | 1 | Not important
Nike | 100+ | Not important


Exercise 9
Input1: Model determines if sender address is a person or business (or anything else)
Input2: Model reads recipient line and determines if there is more than 1

Exercise 10
Both Input1 and Input2 could be used in a heuristic, where each input had a number associated with each of its possible
values so that an overall probability that an email is important could be computed.
More data examples should be added to avoid a biased model.




